---
description: >-
  Using Bluetext to make a full stack app by incrementally adding, and
  integrating services like Couchbase, a FastAPI, and Temporal.
---

# Full-Stack Hello World App

With Bluetext, we encourage users to use AI only when needed. While creating this app, we will try to do as many operations manually directly through the Bluetext Wizards interface, and use the coding agent only to make changes to the code that is generated by our scaffolds. You could also use Bluetext purely as a starting point when developing your app, and manually code the rest from there.

## Frontend

Run the quick setup before proceeding. Open the Bluetext wizard and run the **add-API** tool. You can then prompt the agent with the following.&#x20;

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
I have a frontend running, modify the code to have a smiley face with a text box underneath it that says "hello from the frontend".
```
{% endcode %}

## API&#x20;

Run the **add-api** tool to from the Bluetext Wizard. Then, prompt your agent with the following:

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
list the services to see where what is being hosted. Edit the API to hold a hello from the API message with the following endpoints
GET  /message: returns the hardcoded message
POST /message: replaces the hardcoded message (optional) 

Edit the frontend to display this message under the existing one
```
{% endcode %}

we can check the API directly either by visiting this endpoint trough the browser, or by curling the endpoint.&#x20;

Your agent might ask you to approve a CURL request that would look like the following:&#x20;

```
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8000/message?message=your+new+message"
```

## Couchbase

We can create a collection in Couchbase to store another message. This requires us to call multiple tools&#x20;

1. **add-couchbase** (this adds the server)
2. **add-couchbase-client** (adds client library to the project)
3. **add-couchbase-models** (scaffolds new couchbase models with CRUD operations and adds database functionality to API) add api to interface with cb client, then can write routes that can populate keyspace. It requires parameters, which you can name messages

**Note**: some tools are added to the list of tools dynamically, for example **add-couchbase-client** adds **add-couchbase-models** to the list of available tools. To view these new tools, press refresh in the MCP tools section of the wizard.

We can then prompt the coding agent with the following:

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```
add a message in main.default.messages to hold a hello from couchbase message. change the frontend to add this message underneath.
```
{% endcode %}

When this is done you can navigate to the couchbase.yml, make a change, and check the couchbase UI&#x20;

## Implementing AI

We can now try to implement AI, to add another greeting that uses an LLM to randomise it.&#x20;



## Temporal&#x20;

